---
title: 'Corpse Bride'
description: 'A review of the Corpse Bride movie.'
pubDate: '2005'
heroImage: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/S/pv-target-images/425d0b378e38249bcebd35b2ffcbb5d5fa6de20fbe0e09833709e1a9e7b87289._SX1080_FMjpg_.jpg'
---
###By Kristen###

Corpse bride, it’s another one of my favorite movies of all times. The story goes like this: a young boy that comes from a family, not poor, but not rich either, it’s forced to marry a pretty young lady called Victoria, that actually comes from a wealthy family that it’s going through a crisis. They ran out of money,  so this marriage like almost every marriage on that time was actually a marriage of convenience. Victor is really worried, he’s scared what if he doesn’t love Victoria, when they get to the mansion Victor meets Victoria, talk a little about the piano. When the time for practicing their vows Victor it’s being messy and nervous because he’s he’s so nervous to mess all of that, he ends up messing it and runs out of the house into the forest being ashamed and embarrass about everything he did. He’s so deep into thought that he starts to say his vows in the most amazing way possible, ending his perfect speech with the phrase “with this ring I ask you to be mine” after that phrase the tree he put the ring on starts to come from under the ground and turning into a corpse. He’s so scared, seen the corse before him he instantly pass out, but not before the curse answers “I do”.

This story is one of my favorites not just because it was made in slow motion, that is my favorite animation tactic, or because it’s directed and created by Tim Burton, one of my favorites director in all time, but also because of the story and the meaning of this story. 

I love Emily as a character, she’s shown like a pretty nice girl that just wanted to be married for love, Emily‘s backstory it’s really sad. She found a man that she deeply fell in love with, her parents said no, but still she decided to marry him, she took her family money and run with him, he promise to go for her but it says that he never got to her, but actually, I think that the man actually kill her and took all the money but we will talk about that later.

Going back to Emmy character she has one of the best developments I’ve seen in movies, she starts being naïve and really wanting to marry even when Victor says that he doesn’t love her, that he has a life that he wants to go back, yet she’s so convinced that they can work, Victor in a desperate move trick her into going to the human world, here he tricks her again saying he’s going to take her to meet his family, what Victor actually do is run back to Victoria trying to say that he didn’t wants.

Emily finds out she’s furious and it hurts, she tells Victor “you’re married to me she’s the other woman” and Victor not knowing the impact of his words says “don’t you understand your the other woman”, this deeply hurts Emily and she runs away crying or well doing the sounds of crying because we have to remember Emily is dead, and she has possibly been in debt for ages, after this victor realizes he’s been mean, he’s been so caught up with going back to the human world that he didn’t realize he was hurting Emily. 

Victor goes after her and end up accepting to marry Emily.

On the wedding after it was interrupted by Victoria and Lord Barkis, all the true is revealed, Lord Barkis is the man Emily was going to marry, at the end when Emily saved Victor from being killed by Lord Barkis and he takes the poison whine by accident, he dies and the dead people take him to punish him for his actions.

After all this Emily realizes that she doesn’t want to tie Victor to commit suecide to be whit her and make his promise, he has so many time to life that she loves him but Victor it’s not hers. Victor show her that real love exists they are people out there able to sacrifice things for the person they care about. Emily finally it’s able to rest in peace because she finally understood that love comes in different ways, that she can’t force Victor to love her that, Victor was going to do something stupid for her, committing suicide to be with her and finally she realizes that the best thing they can do for each other…It’s letting each other go, she’s already dead while Victor it’s alive and has a life ahead of him.

I love the music on this movie from the one where they tell us Emily’s backstory, from the piano duo it that it’s not a singing song, but just a piano. The first one of all is definitely tears to shed that it’s the song that Emily sings after she finds out Victor doesn’t want her, this song deeply show how Emily feels, she knows she’s dead, she knows her time passed, but yet she desires to be really love to be chosen for the first time in her life, and saying that even though she’s dead, she still has one last year and we can see that she actually cries one last year at the end of this song.

So now going to be the theories. Emily dead. It comes to light that Lord Barkis was actually Emily‘s first love and the man she run away for and the that promise to wait for her on the forest. why I’m being so specific? well there are different theories, one of my favorites and one that makes a lot of sense is that this man tricked Emily because her family was really wealthy and when he had what he wanted, the money, he killed Emily and disappear. He made Emily love him and then kill her on the forest. There are actually a lot of different theories,  there is one I like and I know it sounds a little crazy but it’s one that theorize that Emily is Victoria’s older sister, that her parents hide her because of what she did, taking all the money and jewelry and running away with a stranger and end up disappearing, but I know is a little crazy.

This movie it’s amazing and it’s a really piece of art like everything Tim Burton has done, not just for the story or the symbolisms but also the details, for example, Victor at the start of the movie, it’s your drawing a blue butterfly and then after drawing it after saving her beauty in the paper, he frees her, later at the end of the movie when Emily realized she can’t force him to marry her, it’s better if he married Victoria and accept that even though she loves Victor, she says thanks to him because he free her, she transforms into blue butterflies that flies freely on the night sky, showing a symbolism that Victor free be Emily in another way, not marry her, but by showing her that true love doesn’t mean always doing crazy things, It also means knowing when you’re hurting the other person and knowing that it’s best to let go so the other person isn’t deeply hurt.

At the end Victor did this safe Emily and love her and Emily love him back and she also saved him, they help each other. And at the end Emily was finally free to rest in peace.


