---
title: 'For all Mankind'
description: 'A review of the For all Mankind series.'
pubDate: '2019'
heroImage: 'https://www.apple.com/tv-pr/articles/2020/12/apple-tv-announces-early-season-three-renewal-for-for-all-mankind/images/big-image-01/120820_Apple_Season_Three_For_All_Mankind_Big_Image_01_big_image_post.jpg.large.jpg'
---
###By John Jairo###

This series is one of my favorites, because it involves one of my favorite subjects, human technology, space, and a big what if, in this case, the main point of this series is: what if the United States lost the space race?, and we get to see what the ramifications of these changes lead to.

Right in the first minutes we get introduced to the idea that the united stated has lost the race, showing us an alternative version of the moon landing, the change being that a soviet union flag was being placed on the moon surface instead of the United States one, in my opinion is a great introduction to these concept, immediately building tension and immersing the viewer in this alternate history.

This loss affects the United States, making them spend more money into the space race, increasing Nasa budget, and scheduling new Apollo missions more frequently. Here we are introduced to the protagonist Ed Baldwin and his friend Gordo Stevens, who take leading roles in these new missions and become central figures throughout the season.

As the story progresses, NASA suffers another major setback when the URSS manage to build a lunar base first, this leads nasa to also deploy there own lunar base, called Jamestown. This increases the political tension between the two superpowers.

After this, they do a time skip of about a decade, im really didnt pay to much attention to this but they rapidly show like a bunch of news that happen in between, trying to mirror some of the events of our world but with the consequences of this change in the history, which is really interesting, after this timeskip, they show us how the lunar bases have grown and expanded, but one really interesting point is that they always keep almost all the URSS side a mystery, there politics, plans, almost everything is keeped in this mystery.
Then there are new conflicts for lunar resources. In this case, the most important one is the resources of a big lunar crater, which has ice at the bottom. This ice becomes extremely important for the sustainability of the lunar bases, because it’s the only source of water available there, other than the deliveries from Earth.
Because of these disputes, both superpowers start militarizing their lunar bases, bringing weapons into them. Eventually, the first military conflicts arrive, with the Americans taking the crater by force. During this operation, they end up killing one of the cosmonauts in a gruesome way: by shooting him, they ignite the oxygen inside his suit, burning him alive inside it. This incident pushes the USSR to retaliate, and they take the US lunar base by force. However, in the middle of these conflicts, a couple of bullets hit a hidden nuclear reactor, putting everyone at risk.
The season ends with the sacrifice of Gordo Stevens and Tracy Stevens. They build rudimentary “space suits” made with gas masks and duct tape to go outside the moon base and run across the void of the lunar surface. Their goal is to reach the reactor, turn it off, and prevent a catastrophe. They manage to succeed and return inside, but sadly it is too late; they ultimately die due to the exposure and the harm caused by the vacuum.
After these events, the series jumps forward again, this time into the early 1990s. Now the big goal isn’t the Moon anymore, it’s Mars. What makes this part really interesting is that the race isn’t just between the United States and the Soviet Union like before. A private company called Helios also joins in, adding a whole new energy to the story. Suddenly it’s not only about countries and politics—it’s about ambition, money, pride, and who’s willing to push the hardest to get there first. This season shows just how far people will go to be part of something historic, and how tough it is to even try building the first home on another planet.

Eventually, the story moves even further into the 2000s, where life on Mars stops being just a risky mission and starts looking more like an actual colony. Here the show dives into more human issues: unfair conditions, the gap between workers and companies, and the tension between doing things for science versus doing them for profit. Mars becomes a reflection of Earth, with all its problems and hopes, just set in a much harsher environment. Even with all these big events happening, the show never forgets about the characters. It keeps showing how their relationships, decisions, and mistakes shape everything around them.

To conclude, this series is really special to me because its theme is genuinely fascinating. It plays with the idea of an alternate reality, specifically an alternate past, built around one of the most important events in human history, and it manages to imagine a future where humanity never stopped reaching for the space frontier, all while mixing in the drama and personal stories, although a critique of mine is that they want to keep the original characters that were in the begging, but with all the time skips, the ages of these stops making sense after a while. On top of that, some of the drama feels unnecessary, like a strange relationship between the wife of the main character (Karen Baldwin) and the son of Gordo Stevens. Those subplots don’t add much and sometimes even take away from the stronger parts of the story.
